According to archaeological（考古学的）evidence, at least 5, 000 years ago, and long before the advent（出现/到来）of the Roman Empire, the Babylonians began to measure time, introducing calendars to co-ordinate（协调）communal（公共的/社区的）activities, to plan the shipment（运输）of goods and, in particular, to regulate（调节/规范）planting and harvesting.
They based their calendars on three natural cycles: the solar（太阳的）day, marked by the successive（连续的）periods of light and darkness as the earth rotates on its axis（绕轴自转）; the lunar（月亮的）month, following the phases（相位/月相）of the moon as it orbits（绕轨道运行）the earth; and the solar year, defined by the changing seasons that accompany our planet's revolution（公转）around the sun.

B 段
Before the invention of artificial（人造的/人工的）light, the moon had greater social impact. And, for those living near the equator（赤道）in particular, its waxing and waning（月亮的盈亏/月盈月亏）was more conspicuous（显著的/显眼的）than the passing of the seasons. Hence, the calendars that were developed at the lower latitudes（纬度）were influenced more by the lunar cycle than by the solar year. In more northern climes（地带/气候区）, however, where seasonal agriculture was practised（实施/从事）, the solar year became more crucial（至关重要的）. As the Roman Empire expanded northward, it organised its activity chart for the most part（基本上/在很大程度上）around the solar year.

C 段
Centuries before the Roman Empire, the Egyptians had formulated（制定/规划）a municipal（市政的/城市的）calendar having 12 months of 30 days, with five days added to approximate（近似/接近）the solar year. Each period of ten days was marked by the appearance of special groups of stars called decans（旬星/分度星）. At the rise of the star Sirius just before sunrise, which occurred around the all-important annual flooding（泛滥）of the Nile, 12 decans could be seen spanning（跨越/贯穿）the heavens. The cosmic（宇宙的）significance the Egyptians placed in the 12 decans led them to develop a system in which each interval（间隔）of darkness was divided into a dozen equal parts. These periods became known as temporal（时间的/世俗的，此处指“随时间变化的”）hours because their duration（持续时间）varied（变化）according to the changing length of days and nights with the passing of the seasons. Summer hours were long, winter ones short; only at the spring and autumn equinoxes（昼夜平分点/二分点）were the hours of daylight and darkness equal. Temporal hours, which were first adopted by the Greeks and then the Romans, who disseminated（散布/传播）them through Europe, remained in use for more than 2, 500 years.

D 段
In order to track temporal hours during the day, inventors created sundials（日晷）, which indicate time by the length or direction of the sun's shadow. The sundial's counterpart（对应物/对应的人或物）, the water clock（水钟/漏壶）, was designed to measure temporal hours at night. One of the first water clocks was a basin（盆/水池）with a small hole near the bottom through which the water dripped out（滴出）. The falling water level denoted（表示/标志着）the passing hour as it dipped（下降/浸）below hour lines inscribed（刻/题写）on the inner surface. Although these devices performed satisfactorily（令人满意地）around the Mediterranean, they could not always be depended on（依靠）in the cloudy and often freezing（冰冻的）weather of northern Europe.

E 段
The advent（出现）of the mechanical（机械的）clock meant that although it could be adjusted（调节/调整）to maintain temporal hours, it was naturally suited（天然适合）to keeping equal（相等的/均等的）ones. With these, however, arose（出现/产生）the question of when to begin counting, and so, in the early 14th century, a number of systems evolved（演变/进化）. The schemes（方案/体制）that divided the day into 24 equal parts varied according to the start of the count: astronomical（天文学的）hours began at midday. Eventually these were superseded（取代/代替）by 'small clock', or French, hours, which split the day into two 12-hour periods commencing（开始）at midnight.

F 段
The earliest recorded weight-driven（重力驱动的）mechanical clock was built in 1283 in Bedfordshire in England. The revolutionary（革命性的/突破性的）aspect of this new timekeeper was neither the descending（下降的）weight that provided its motive force（动力）nor the gear wheels（齿轮）(which had been around for at least 1, 300 years) that transferred（传递/转移）the power; it was the part called the escapement（擒纵轮/擒纵装置）. In the early 1400s came the invention of the coiled spring（螺旋弹簧）or fusee（均力圆锥轮）which maintained constant（恒定的）force to the gear wheels of the timekeeper despite the changing tension（张力）of its mainspring（主发条）. By the 16th century, a pendulum（钟摆）clock had been devised（设计/发明）, but the pendulum swung in a large arc（弧度/弧形）and thus was not very efficient（高效的）.

G 段
To address（解决/处理）this, a variation（变体/变化）on the original escapement was invented in 1670, in England. It was called the anchor（锚）escapement, which was a lever-based（杠杆式的）device shaped like a ship's anchor. The motion of a pendulum rocks（摇动/摆动）this device so that it catches（卡住）and then releases（释放）each tooth（齿轮的齿）of the escape wheel, in turn allowing it to turn a precise（精确的）amount. Unlike the original form used in early pendulum clocks, the anchor escapement permitted（允许）the pendulum to travel in a very small arc. Moreover, this invention allowed the use of a long pendulum which could beat（跳动/摆动）once a second and thus led to the development of a new floor-standing case（落地式柜体）design, which became known as the grandfather clock（大摆钟/长壳钟）.

H 段
Today, highly accurate timekeeping instruments set the beat（定节奏/打拍子）for most electronic devices. Nearly all computers contain a quartz-crystal（石英晶体）clock to regulate（调节/控制）their operation. Moreover, not only do time signals beamed down（射下/定向发射）from Global Positioning System satellites(卫星) calibrate（校准/核验）the functions of precision（精密/精确）navigation equipment, they do so as well for mobile phones, instant stock-trading（股票交易）systems and nationwide power-distribution grids（配电网）. So integral（不可或缺的/构成整体所必需的）have these time-based technologies become to day-to-day existence that our dependency（依赖）on them is recognised only when they fail to work.

- mourner
- funeral
- archaeological
- advent
- simultaneous
- ofgeography
- devise
- civil
- escapement
- co-ordinate
- communal
- shipment
- solar
- successive
- rotate
- lunar
- phase
- orbit
- revolution
- clime
- practise
- crucial
- formulated 
- character
- chapter
- beat
- present-day application = we can learn from
- rival
- clipper
- ship's crew 